This final example is probably most
relevant to Aspen on a ground level.
It's the most up to date.
I started building this last weekend
in preparation for a contract
opportunity to be the sole digital
provider for a Devon-based care group
comprised of about a dozen care homes.
They basically wanted remote digital
development, automation of routine
tasks, streamlining of digital operations
alongside general ad hoc IT support.
Not a big enough operation to warrant
hiring a big MSP, but they also wanted
like a close working relationship,
people with like a compact, dependable
outfit or a skilled individual.
So I thought instead of simply operating
personally as an individual, I should
do so under my own professional outfit.
So I started to create Deepline,
the domain deepline.support.
Deepline has this like tactical
appeal beyond second and
third line support, Deepline.
So really this was me rethinking how
I want to operate, not wanting to
rely on external tooling or existing
licensed software and thinking under
DeepLine, I can begin to build my own
support stack and create all the custom
tooling on the fly as and when needed,
tailored to best suit the way I operate.
With the idea that I provide remote
digital services all the way from
basic remote IT support to innovative
digital business solutions.
The first tool I set about building
last weekend in preparation for
this opportunity is custom remote
support software, Deepline branded.
So essentially it's this small
client app that the customer can run.
This opens a connection and
allows for remote support.
And then on my end, I've built this
lightweight web-based operator console,
which includes a few different technical
features that I personally find
useful when conducting remote support.
Client app is node-based.
Web portal runs through a
secure Cloudflare-hosted tunnel.
Essentially, I open the tunnel and the
relay from my own laptop as and when
I need to conduct a remote session.
So my device itself, then the
laptop acts as a portable server
to host that connection, as well as
functioning as an operator console.
So this allows me to work on the fly
from anywhere in the world without having
to rely on any on-prem infrastructure
like home server rigs, for example.
The main point of this being the big
problem I'd always encounter as an IT
command center operative, usually nine
times out of ten, a remote worker would be
facing an issue with their connectivity.
So they'd call us for support, but the
catch 22 with this, the issue itself is
with their poor network connectivity.
So consequently, oftentimes we
couldn't even remotely connect to
their machine, or if we did, the
connection was so poor it was unusable.
The team would find it extremely
challenging to even conduct a
basic troubleshooting session
over such poor connections.
This often resulted in the team simply
instructing an end user to find a better
connection themselves or to try improve
their signal somehow with different
methods, speak to their internet service
provider, or ultimately drive to an
office location with a stable connection.
I realized that maybe that was
also partly a tooling inadequacy
on our part as well, right?
The company only allowing
us to use Microsoft Teams
or a licensed remote viewer.
These apps often struggle because you're
often trying to stream the entire screen
in a decent resolution and frame rate
for a comfortable viewing experience.
So these specific tools perhaps
aren't cut out for the task
under these circumstances.
So I wanted to create a tool that
was usable over very unstable
or poor quality networks.
No doubt there's already tools in
existence like this, but you know, why
pay for a license when I can just build
my own to suit my own specific needs?
As I say, video streams are cumbersome
because they often drop to a much
lower resolution, and when they do,
they buffer and they lag because
they're always working hard in the
background with the main objective
to improve the quality of the stream.
For technical troubleshooting,
I don't necessarily need the
entire picture streamed in
beautiful 4K resolution, right?
It's not Netflix.
I'm not looking to be entertained here.
But also on the flip side, it
can't be so drastically low res
that I can't make anything out
and everything is just pixelated.
That's also not a
particularly productive state.
So I thought, okay maybe I can base
the stream on how the human eye works.
So as humans, we actually only
ever see about a thumbnail size at
arm's length in, in really sharp
focus, high resolution, so to speak.
So this tiny area is all we need because
our eyes dart around, and our brain
then makes up the rest of the image.
The rest of our visual field is
essentially a much lower resolution
for a similar data-saving reason.
It would take too much energy for us
if our brains had to process our entire
visual field in extremely high resolution.
It's effectively a filter, and
the same goes for video streaming.
The higher the resolution,
the more data, the heavier the
strain it puts on the connection.
So my tool actually only streams
a small area around the cursor
in high res, in sharp focus.
The rest is very low res just to make
up a baseline image of the desktop.
Wherever I move the cursor is what
comes into sharp focus, and that's
all the operative really needs.
And then I found, as I predicted,
this works surprisingly well over a
very poor network connection because
it's not trying to stream a high-res,
data-hungry image of the entire screen.
I also built in like a, a screen
capture feature, so you can use
that to manually request a static
full-res image of the entire screen.
If, for example, during a remote session,
at certain points, I might want to examine
the whole desktop in its entirety clearly.
So it's this, like, super light, almost
surgical remote tool that outperforms
most in, like, crisis scenarios.
It completely leapfrogs the often
initial problem of trying to improve
the network connection before even
getting to troubleshoot the actual issue.
It just works.
We can jump straight into troubleshooting
regardless of network quality.
Obviously, the entire Deepline model
is something I'm currently in the
process of building out, so you'll
have to excuse the lack of public
website and basic UX at the moment.
So I have another laptop here,
which is just gonna function as
the, the, uh, customer's device for
the purpose of this demonstration.
So I've opened the tunnel and relay.
Just logging into the operator
console here on my device.
As you can see, it's Cloudflare
secured, and this is the initial
remote request queue screen.
So now over on the customer's device,
this is what the uplink client looks like.
So that's gonna establish a
connection with the operator.
Back on the operator console then,
you can see the request has just
come through, and a little bit of
helpful information here just about
the device that's requesting support.
As the operator then I'll just
put a request in for control.
Back on the client's device here, it's
just prompting me now to allow control.
Okay.
And then obviously we're in the operator
console here, remotely connected to
the customer's machine, as you can see.
And as I move the cursor around,
it's only a small area around the
cursor that comes into sharp focus
When I end the session, it gives
me the option to save an auto
recording of the session and the log.
When the session ends over on the
customer's end, it's gonna notify them,
and it also gives them the option just
to save the log for their own records